packages/docs/docs/introduction.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Introduction

Welcome blockchain explorers! If you ever wanted to integrate the powerful world of **Self-Sovereign Identity (SSI)**, **Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs)**, and **Verifiable Credentials (VCs)** into **decentralized applications (dApps)**, you have found the right place. No need for additional platforms and wallets, only one of the most popular **web3** wallets is required - MetaMask.

The SSI Snap is a **MetaMask Snap** (plugin) that can handle **DIDs**, securely store **VCs**, and create the **VPs**. These docs offer all the necessary information to start using it right away!

What are the use cases for **SSI** in **dApps**?

- Enriched identity profiles
- Credentials to access hidden resources
- DAO governance based on earned achievements and skills
- No gas identity data (everything is off-chain)
- Everything you come up with ... :)

Want to join the discussion or interested in contributing? Join the [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/M5xgNz7TTF).

Commit message:

feat: update docs content (#54)
* docs: update content

* docs: fix broken links

* docs: fix broken link

packages/docs/docs/introduction.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Introduction

Welcome web3 explorers! Did you ever feel that your **Decentralized Application (dApp)** is missing something, like better knowledge of your users and a more robust identity layer? Now you can integrate the powerful world of **Decentralized Identity/Self-Sovereign Identity (SSI)**, **Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs)**, and **Verifiable Credentials (VCs)** with just a few steps. No need for additional platforms and wallets; only one of the most popular **web3** wallets is required - MetaMask.

The SSI Snap is a **MetaMask Snap** (extension) that adds support for **SSI**: it can manage **DIDs**, store **VCs**, and create the **VPs**. These docs are a great place to learn about the SSI and find all the necessary information to start using it immediately!

Why use SSI Snap?

- Give access to Decentralized Identity and SSI to millions of existing MetaMask and dApp users.
- Let MetaMask handle the security of cryptographic keys. You can also easily back them up with a seed phrase.
- Users can (and should) decide which DID method to use and where they want their VCs to be stored.
- You can easily integrate DIDs and VCs into your dApp using **[SSI Snap Connector](./libraries/ssi-snap-connector)** library. No need to implement the logic for multiple DID methods and places to store VCs.
- dApps can quickly request VC (or create VP) with a single RPC call — no need to develop extra logic and care about where the VC is stored.

Want to join the discussion, or are you interested in contributing? Check the footer to find the links to all social platforms!
