packages/docs/docs/roadmap.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 8
---

# Roadmap

Are you interested in how SSI Snap will evolve in the future?

DID methods:

- [x] `did:ethr`
- [x] `did:key`
- [x] `did:pkh`
- [ ] `did:jwk`
- [ ] `did:cheqd`
- [ ] `did:ebsi`
- [ ] `did:ens`
- [ ] `did:polygon`
- [ ] ...

Verifiable Credentials (VCs):

- [x] Store
- [x] Retrieval from single storage
- [x] Retrieval from multiple storages
- [x] Filtering based on query (e.g., JSONPath query)
- [ ] Structure verification
- [ ] Revocation
- [ ] ...

Verifiable Presentations (VPs):

- [x] Create with single VCs
- [x] Create with multiple VCs
- [ ] ...

Storage options:

- [x] MetaMask Snap State (local, off-chain)
- [x] Ceramic Network
- [ ] Google Drive
- [ ] Kepler (SpruceID)
- [ ] ...

Cryptography:

- [x] Signing with MetaMask keys
- [ ] Selective Disclosure - SD-JWT
- [ ] Selective Disclosure - BBS+
- [ ] Zero-Knowledge Proofs (ZKPs)
- [ ] ...

Proof formats:

- [x] JWT
- [x] JSON-LD
- [x] EIP712
- [ ] JSON Web Proofs
- [ ] ...

Digital identity standards:

- [ ] PEX (Presentation Exchange)
- [ ] OpenID Connect (SIOP, OIDC4VC, and OIDC4VP)
- [ ] Credential Manifest
- [ ] CHAPI
- [ ] DIDComm
- [ ] ...

SSI Snap dApp:

- [x] DID method selection
- [x] Import, list, and delete VCs
- [x] Manage settings
- [ ] Create VPs
- [ ] Move VC to another storage
- [ ] Import/export (backup VCs)
- [ ] Public profiles
- [ ] ...

Snaps-related functionality:

- [ ] Snap UI Elements
- [ ] Settings and storage synchronization across multiple devices
- [ ] Featured on Snaps registry
- [ ] ...

dApp integrations:

- [x] Snapshot
- [ ] ...

This page is subject to change in the future.

Want to see your project on the roadmap? Join our Discord (link in the footer) to join the discussion!

Commit message:

docs: change ssi snap to masca (#156)
---------

Co-authored-by: Martin Domajnko <35891136+martines3000@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: martines3000 <domajnko.martin@gmail.com>

packages/docs/docs/roadmap.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 8
---

# Roadmap

Are you interested in how Masca will evolve in the future?

DID methods:

- [x] Resolve DIDs
- [x] `did:ethr`
- [x] `did:key`
- [x] `did:pkh`
- [x] `did:jwk`
- [ ] `did:cheqd`
- [ ] `did:ebsi`
- [ ] `did:ens`
- [ ] `did:polygon`
- [ ] ...

Verifiable Credentials (VCs):

- [x] Store
- [x] Retrieval from single storage
- [x] Retrieval from multiple storages
- [x] Filtering based on query (e.g., JSONPath query)
- [x] Create custom VC
- [ ] Structure verification
- [ ] Revocation
- [ ] ...

Verifiable Presentations (VPs):

- [x] Create with single VCs
- [x] Create with multiple VCs
- [ ] ...

Storage options:

- [x] MetaMask Snap State (local, off-chain)
- [x] Ceramic Network
- [ ] Google Drive
- [ ] Kepler (SpruceID)
- [ ] ...

Cryptography:

- [x] Signing with MetaMask keys
- [ ] Selective Disclosure - SD-JWT
- [ ] Selective Disclosure - BBS+
- [ ] Zero-Knowledge Proofs (ZKPs)
- [ ] ...

Proof formats:

- [x] JWT
- [x] JSON-LD
- [x] EIP712
- [ ] JSON Web Proofs
- [ ] ...

Digital identity standards:

- [ ] PEX (Presentation Exchange)
- [ ] OpenID Connect (SIOP, OIDC4VC, and OIDC4VP)
- [ ] Credential Manifest
- [ ] CHAPI
- [ ] DIDComm
- [ ] ...

Masca dApp:

- [x] DID method selection
- [x] Import, list, and delete VCs
- [x] Manage settings
- [x] Create VPs
- [x] Move VC to another storage
- [x] Import VCs
- [ ] Export VCs
- [ ] Public profiles
- [ ] ...

Snaps-related functionality:

- [ ] Snap UI Elements
- [ ] Settings and storage synchronization across multiple devices
- [ ] Featured on Snaps registry
- [ ] ...

dApp integrations:

- [x] Snapshot
- [ ] ...

This page is subject to change in the future.

Want to see your project on the roadmap? Join our Discord (link in the footer) to join the discussion!
