packages/docs/docs/ssi-snap/storage.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Storage

SSI Snap utilizes MetaMask's state to store data. SSI Snap modifies the **`SSISnapState`** object.

In the `SSISnapState` object, data for every MetaMask account is stored in property, named after the said MetaMask account. Inside this property Keypairs, DIDs, VCs and Account Configuration are stored.

There is also global configuration object in the SSISnapState object

Data-store plugins, used by Veramo Client and Manager plugins, modify the state.

- `KeyStoreManager`
- `PrivateKeyManager`
- `DIDManager`
- `VCManager`

It is important to note that MetaMask Account private keys are **NEVER** exported from MetaMask!

Structure of the state stored in MetaMask:

```typescript
{
  SSISnapState:
    {
      SSISnapConfig:
      {
        snap: {
          infuraToken: string;
          acceptedTerms: boolean;
          ...
        };
        dApp: {
          disablePopups: boolean;
          ...
        };
      }
      0xBea807A8...e59D:
        {
          snapKeyStore: Record<string, IKey>,
          snapPrivateKeyStore: Record<string, IKey>,
          identifiers: Record<string, IIdentifier>,
          vcs: Record<string, VerifiableCredential>
          publicKey: string;
          accountConfig: {
            ssi:
              {
                didMethod: "did:ethr",
                vcStore: "snap"
              }
          }
        },
      0x8Db2a08D...caD7:
        {
          snapKeyStore: Record<string, IKey>,
          snapPrivateKeyStore: Record<string, IKey>,
          identifiers: Record<string, IIdentifier>,
          vcs: Record<string, VerifiableCredential>
          publicKey: string;
          accountConfig: {
            ssi:
              {
                didMethod: "did:key",
                vcStore: "ceramic"
              }
          }
        },
      ...,
    },
}
```

Commit message:

docs: update docs for ssi snap 1.3.0 (#68)
* feat: implement webpage

* feat: update some RPC calls

* fix: type error

* fix: update some connector params

* fix: fix some dApp issues

* fix: check if snap is installed

* feat: change buttons

* feat: docs button

* fix: some visual updates and fixes

* fix: connector type

* test: minor test fix

* feat: add delete to connector

* fix: bugfix

* docs: change connector & general docs

* docs: dataManager docs

* docs: update rpc methods

* docs: update roadmap & getting started

* docs: getSettings

* update docs

* docs: update docs

* fix: remove package-lock.json

* chore: remove unneccessary libs

* chore: update veramo version

* fix: rollback nx version

* fix: lint

* chore: fix index.html

* update docs

* fix: fix VP proof formats

* docs: fix outdated info

* docs: update app

* fix: fixes webpack build

Co-authored-by: Vid Kersic <vid.kersic@yahoo.com>
Co-authored-by: martines3000 <domajnko.martin@gmail.com>

packages/docs/docs/ssi-snap/storage.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Storage

SSI Snap utilizes MetaMask's state to store data. SSI Snap modifies the **`SSISnapState`** object.

In the `SSISnapState` object, data for every MetaMask account is stored in property, named after the said MetaMask account. Inside this property DIDs, VCs, Snap & Account Configuration are stored.

There is also global configuration object in the SSISnapState object

Data-store plugins, used by Veramo Client and Manager plugins, modify the state.

- `DIDManager`
- `DataManager`

:::info Private Keys

It is important to note that MetaMask Account private keys are **NEVER** exported from MetaMask! They are only used during RPC calls and are deleted from memory after the RPC method is done!

:::

Structure of the state stored in MetaMask:

```typescript
{
  SSISnapState:
    {
      SSISnapConfig:
      {
        snap: {
          infuraToken: string;
          acceptedTerms: boolean;
          ...
        };
        dApp: {
          disablePopups: boolean;
          ...
        };
      }
      0xBea807A8...e59D:
        {
          identifiers: Record<string, IIdentifier>,
          vcs: Record<string, VerifiableCredential>
          publicKey: string;
          accountConfig: {
            ssi:
              {
                didMethod: "did:ethr",
                vcStore: {
                  snap: true,
                  ceramic: true
                }
              }
          }
        },
      0x8Db2a08D...caD7:
        {
          identifiers: Record<string, IIdentifier>,
          vcs: Record<string, VerifiableCredential>
          publicKey: string;
          accountConfig: {
            ssi:
              {
                didMethod: "did:key",
                vcStore: vcStore: {
                  snap: true,
                  ceramic: false
                }
              }
          }
        },
      ...,
    },
}
```
